---
https://bloomberg.github.io/foml/#lectures
---
# 1. BLACK BOX MACHINE LEARNING

47:13  I wrote the points for lecture previous to this point is in the notes.
Lemme remember roughly.

Types
. Binary classification
. multi-class classification
. probabilistic classification or soft classification
. regression


Data -> ML -> Prediction function

X -> prediction function -> y


X -> feture extraction -> |R^d

labeled/unlabeled data

Loss functions
	0/1 loss
	square loss

testing and training set.

Nonstationarity
	Covarience shift
	Concept drift

50:28 k-fold cross-validation	
	Compute standard error of k folds of data into train and test sets.
	final Test set always used for final deployment of the algorithm. Its used even after choosing an ML among ML algos if u r choosing among many ML algos

1:12:47 Sample bias: Test inputs different(in distribution) from deployment inputs. Basically test was biased

1:15:00 Model complexity and overfitting
hyper parameter(parameter for the ML itself.) 


Overfitting means good train score, poor test score.

In case of over fitting, you can
	. reduce complexity of your model,

	. increase number of train data.

There are ways of controlling complexity of model. (one of them is regularization talked later.)

Hyperparameters control various things
	. model complexity(eg. polynomial order)
	. type of mode complexity (eg. l1 or l2 regularization)
	. optimization algorithm(eg. learning rate)
	. model type (eg. loss fn, kernal type ect)
 

# 2. CASE STUDY: CHURN PREDICTION
---

# 3. INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICAL LEARNING THEORY
Stastical Learning Theory

Typpical sequence of Events
a) Observe input x
b) Take action a
c) observe outcone y

Evaluate action vs outcome l(a,y)

Typically wanna assume outcome independent of action. By not always the case ( like in autonomous cars)



What would the spaces be for linear regression lie in?

Input space x : past data or latest data R^d

Action a : prediction of next value

Outcome : future value




What would the spaces be for logistic regression?

Input space x : past data or latest data R^d

Action a :  or 1 or probability of 1.

Outcome : 0 or 1




What would the spaces be for SVM?

Input space x : past data or latest data R^d

Action a : prediction of next value

Outcome : future value




12:31 Definition of 

                 Decision function or prediction function: gets input X and produces action A
	             
	             Loss function : 
	             
	             Risk: expected loss R on a new example (x,y)
	             
	             Bayes decision fulction: f* = arg f min R(f)    ==== min R(l(f(x),y)) where R is expected loss, f(x) prediction function l() is loss function, y is output.

IMPORTANT        20:22 Homework: f* = E(y/x)  find out why. #mathconcept #probablility: expected value in 

19:51 Least square regression
		Risk = 

We cant compute risk!! coz we never know P(y|x) (probablility of the real world)

discontinued. Jump to emperical ris function

at 29:00
Emprical Risk functional
-------------------------

The actual real world data is modelled by a sample generated by a random data generator. That implied that the above expected loss or risk is a random output too. meaning it has a probability distribution and other properties associated to random data. Hence comes emperical risk into picture.

Law of large numbers
Average loss on the data is a good estimate of the expected loss. (See the video at around 30:00 for more clarity)


